imgscalr - Java Image-Scaling Library
http://www.thebuzzmedia.com/software/imgscalr-java-image-scaling-library/


Changelog
---------
3.0
	* Big thanks to Magnus Kvalheim from http://www.movellas.com/ for help with
	this release!
	* Support for hardware-accelerated BufferedImageOp's was added to the library.
	You can now provide an optional BufferedImageOp to many of the methods in the
	imgscalr library and it will be applied to the resultant image before returning
	it. 
	* Most common request was for imgscalr to apply an "anti-aliasing" filter to
	results before returning them; this was achieved by adding support for
	BufferedImageOps and providing a hand-tuned ConvolveOp to provide a good
	default that can be applied easily by folks that want the effect but don't
	want to learn all about BufferedImageOps and what "convolve" even means.
	* Speed/Balance/Quality THRESHOLD values were adjusted for more optimal results
	when relying on Method.AUTOMATIC to give good-looking results.
	* Javadoc was updated to clarify hardware acceleration behaviors.

2.1
	* Scaling of certain image types (and byte layouts) could result in very poor
	looking scaled images ("pixelated" look, discolored dithering, etc.). This was
	corrected by imgscalr forcibly scaling all source images into the most well-supported
	image types by Java2D, resulting in excellent scale result quality regardless
	of the Method specified.
	* The issue of scaling of poorly supported (by Java2D) image-types can lead 
	to unexpectedly poor performance was also corrected as a side-effect of this
	because all source images are converted to the most commonly supported image
	type for Java2D.

2.0
	* API-break: resize(BufferedImage, Method, int, int, boolean, boolean) was removed and
	replaced by resize(BufferedImage, Method, int, int).
	* DEBUG system variable added; set 'imgscalr.debug' to true to trigger debugging output
	in the console. The boolean debug and elapsedTime arguments to the resize method
	have been removed.
	* New BALANCED method added. Provides a better result than SPEED faster than QUALITY.
	* Added 2 optimized thresholds (in pixels) that the API uses to select the best Method
	for scaling when the user specifies AUTOMATIC (or doesn't specify a method). This helps
	provide much better results out of the box by default and tightens up the performance of the
	API a bit more.
	* Image comparison generator utility (ComparisonGenerator test class) added.
	* Functional portions of API broken into static protected methods that can be
	easily overridden by implementors to customize the API without needing to rewrite
	the resize methods.
	* Consolidated 5 locations of duplicated rendering code into a single method (scaleImage).
	* Tightened up image scaling operation to do everything possible to avoid memory leaks (every native
	resource is disposed or released explicitly)
	* Detailed logging information integrated. If the 'imgscalr.debug' system property is
	true, the API outputs exactly what it's doing, what argument values it is processing and
	how long it is taking to do each scale operation.
	* When AUTOMATIC method is specified, the API is more intelligent about selecting
	SPEED, BALANCED or QUALITY based on the images primary dimension only (more accurate).
	* Copious amounts of Javadoc added to new methods, new code and existing code. 
	
	Issues Resolved in 2.0:
	https://github.com/thebuzzmedia/imgscalr/issues/closed

1.2
	* Default proportional-scaling logic is more straight forward. If an image is
	landscape then width is the preferred dimension and the given height is ignored
	(and recalculated) and visa-versa if the image is portrait oriented. This gives
	much better "default behavior" results.
	* Added new convenience method resize(BufferedImage,int,int)
	* Modified build.xml to output Maven-friendly artifact names.
	* Library now available from the http://maven.thebuzzmedia.com Maven repo, see
	"Maven" section on this page for more information:
	http://www.thebuzzmedia.com/software/imgscalr-java-image-scaling-library/
	* Javadoc is now available on the web at:
	http://www.thebuzzmedia.com/downloads/software/imgscalr/javadoc/index.html
	
	Issues Resolved in 1.2:
	https://github.com/thebuzzmedia/imgscalr/issues/closed

1.1
	* Initial public release.


License
-------
This library is released under the Apache 2 License. See LICENSE.


Description
-----------
A class implementing performant (hardware accelerated), good-looking and 
intelligent image-scaling algorithms in pure Java 2D. This class implements the 
Java2D "best practices" when it comes to scaling images as well as Chris 
Campbell's incremental scaling algorithm proposed as the best method for 
down-sizes images for use as thumbnails (along with some additional minor 
optimizations).

imgscalr also provides support for applying arbitrary BufferedImageOps against
resultant images directly in the library.

TIP: imgscalr provides a default "anti-aliasing" Op that will very lightly soften
an image; this was a common request. Check Scalr.OP_ANTIALIAS

TIP: All resizing operations maintain the original images proportions.

TIP: You can ask imgscalr to fit an image to a specific width or height regardless 
of its orientation using a Mode argument.

This class attempts to make scaling images in Java as simple as possible by providing
a handful of approaches tuned for scaling as fast as possible or as best-looking 
as possible and the ability to let the algorithm choose for you to optionally create 
the best-looking scaled image as fast as possible without boring you with the details 
if you don't want them.


Example
-------
In the simplest use-case where an image needs to be scaled to proportionally fit 
a specific width (say 150px for a thumbnail) and the class is left to decide which 
method will look the best, the code would look like this:

  BufferedImage srcImage = ImageIO.read(...); // Load image
  BufferedImage scaledImage = Scalr.resize(srcImage, 150); // Scale image

You could even flatten that out further if you simply wanted to scale the image 
and write out the scaled result immediately to a single line:

  ImageIO.write(Scalr.resize(ImageIO.read(...), 150));


Working with GIFs
-----------------
Java's support for writing GIF is... terrible. In Java 5 is was patent-encumbered
which made it mostly totally broken. In Java 6 the quantizer used to downsample
colors to the most accurate 256 colors was fast but inaccurate, yielding 
poor-looking results. The handling of an alpha channel (transparency) while writing
out GIF files (e.g. ImageIO.write(...)) was non-existent in Java 5 and in Java 6
would remove the alpha channel completely and replace it with solid BLACK.

In Java 7, support for writing out the alpha channel was added but unfortunately
many of the remaining image operations (like ConvoleOp) still corrupt the
resulting image when written out as a GIF.

NOTE: Support for scaling animated GIFs don't work at all in any version.

My recommendation for working with GIFs is as follows in order of preference:

1. Save the resulting BufferedImage from imgscalr as a PNG; it looks
better as no quantizer needs to be used to cull down the color space and 
transparency is maintained. 

2. If you mostly need GIF, check the resulting BufferedImage.getType() to see
if it is TYPE_INT_RGB (no transparency) or TYPE_INT_ARGB (transparency); if the
type is ARGB, then save the image as a PNG to maintain the alpha channel, if not,
you can safely save it as a GIF.

3. If you MUST have GIF, upgrade your runtime to Java 7 and save your images as
GIF. If you run Java 6, any GIF using transparency will have the transparent
channel replaced with BLACK and in Java 5 I think the images will most all be
corrupt/invalid.

REMINDER: Even in Java 7, applying some BufferedImageOps (like ConvolveOp) to
the scaled GIF before saving it totally corrupts it; so you would need to avoid
that if you didn't want to save it as a PNG. If you decide to save as a PNG, you
can apply any Ops you want.
 

Troubleshooting
---------------
Image-manipulation in Java can take more memory than the size of the source image
because the image has to be "decoded" into raw ARGB bytes when loaded into the
BufferedImage instance; fortunately on most platforms this is a hardware-accelerated
operation by the video card.

If you are running into OutOfMemoryExceptions when using this library (e.g. if you
dealing with 10+ MB source images from an ultra-high-MP DSLR) try and up the 
heap size using the "-Xmx" command line argument to your Java process.

An example of how to do this looks like:

  java -Xmx128m com.site.MyApp
  

Reference
---------
Chris Campbell Incremental Scaling - http://today.java.net/pub/a/today/2007/04/03/perils-of-image-getscaledinstance.html


Contact
-------
If you have questions, comments or bug reports for this software please contact
us at: software@thebuzzmedia.com